.\" @(#)passwdGen.1 1.11.1 93/19/22 PJV;
.TH PASSWDGEN 1 "Version 2.2" "Denis Lemire"
.SH NAME
passwdGen \- A flexible random password generator
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
passwdGen is a utility useful to system administrators and end-users who, for security reasons,
wish to generate random passwords based on their criteria
.SH "REQUIRED OPTIONS"
.TP
.B At least one of the following options must be used:
.TP
.B -a, --lowercase
include lowercase alphabetical characters in the generated password.
.TP
.B -A, --uppercase	
include uppercase alphabetical characters in the generated password.
.TP
.B -1, --numeric
include numeric characters in the generated password.
.TP
.B -@, --misc
include misc ASCII characters.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.B     --min=number
Specify the minimum length of the generated password. Defaults to 6.
.TP
.B     --max=number
Specify the maximum length of the generated password. Defaults to 8.
.TP
.B     --length=number
Specify a fixed length for the generated password.
.TP
.B -p, --pronounceable
Generate pronounceable passwords.
.TP
.B -l, --lefthand
Generate a password that can be typed entirely with your left hand.
.TP
.B -r, --righthand
Generate a password that can be typed entirely with your right hand.
.TP
.B --alternate
Generate a password that alternates between left-hand characters and right-hand
characters.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Output only the password, this is useful for frontends or scripts to use.
.TP
.B --version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B --help	
Display command-line summary and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Denis Lemire
5013 48 Street
Beaumont, AB T4X 1H7
Canada
.fi
.PP
Additional information can be found at:
.br
http://members.home.com/denisl/passwdgen
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to: denis@lemire.com
